---
title: Shrek and Human Supremacy
author: Rohan Prasad
date: 2019-11-03
layout: post

---



Outline:
* Shrek is great, but few know it's about animality and non-human rights
* knocking on the door, persecution. displacement of creatures around the forest. just like fascist government
* The origin of this is Lord Farquaad, a wanna-be dictator. Torturing the Gingerbread man, forcing information from mirror on the wall. His arrogance represents the arrogance of humans around the globe, exploiting others out of self-interest
* But if this film is a case for inter-species relations, what do we make of the typical white woman, Fiona? She is an example of repressed animality, hateful of herself because she does not live up to the standards of human women. Her nightly transformation is also symbolic, showing how no matter we all have a "animal" side to us, but this is something that we should embrace (as Fiona does when she kisses Shrek).
* Despite Shrek being pro-animal rights, I still question the ending. Farquaad does end up being swallowed by a dragon, but this violent end to the film's villain is not how shifts in government actually occur. In democracies and dictatorships alike, foul rulers are only toppled when their pillars are support have shifted, whether it be the military that backs the leader or a dramatic change in public opinion. In the case of Shrek, non-human creatures have no political rights. They are left to the mercy of the technocrats Shrek and Fiona, who have been shown to have biases and likely will not guarantee equality for all creatures in the Shrek universe.
* Nonetheless, Shrek is a powerful story about the tyranny and humans and the power and inter-species cooperation in a just society.
